---
title: "Sophomore Year"
weight: 2
---

{{< figure src="/images/letter-inventory.png"
    title="\"LetterInventory\", the first program in the first CS class I took at UW." class="small-image">}}

It's always interesting to look back at what you have written in the past, and
as a Computer Engineering major, most of the text that I write is not prose, but
rather code. Although I did write a small amount of code for AP Computer Science
back in high school, I had not written any for perhaps two years until I took
this class, and so this class and this assignment in particuar represents a
critical moment in my journey of deciding on and actually studying Computer
Engineering. Apparently I was worried about meeting CSE 143's notorious
code-commenting requirements, because this documentation is fairly clear and
descriptive of what the class does.

{{< figure src="/images/schedule-wi23.png"
    title="Winter 2023 was a pretty busy quarter academically." class="small-image">}}

This was a quarter was an inflection point for me. I was taking two CSE and two
EE classes and would find out midway through the quarter whether I was accepted
into the Allen School or not. Because of this and my desire to be ready to
progress either way, I was essentially taking the "next step" classes for each
major, which resulted in a lot of work but also an excellent opportunity to try
each major out and see which one I preferred. Although I was prepared to do
either major, after Professor Weber's offering of CSE 311 and writing numerous
mathematical proofs, I knoew that I preferred Computer Engineering. Thankfully,
I was accepted, and so I was able to make that decision and adjust my academic
journey.

{{< figure src="/images/acoustiic.jpeg"
    title="Doing some integration testing." class="small-image">}}

After the previous summer's experience with Chipotle, I redoubled my efforts
that autumn to find a technical internship. I did that, and ended up working at
Acoustiic, which is a medical startup using high-frequency ultrasound to
non-invasively ablate cancerous tumors. Because of its small size, I was able to
wear many hats, and do everything from code, solder, and in general do whatever
I saw fit to accomplish my and the company's goals. It was an enjoyable
experience, and getting to work in industry was invaluable for understanding
exactly how different academic and industry standards can be. Another benefit of
working here was that it cemented in my mind that I had made the right decision
by switching majors, which although I had felt strongly about when I made the
decision, there was still a lingering feeling of wondering if it was the right
choice.
