---
title: "Freshman Year"
weight: 1
---

## 'first quarter at uw'

The goings-on of autumn 2021. Learning calculus II, struggling with bridge,
listening to the symphony.

{{< figure src="/images/math125.png"
    title="A humorous comment on a Math 125 midterm." class="small-image">}}

These are the Gradescope annotations of problem 2.3 on the first midterm I took
in college, which happened to be for Math 125, also known as Calculus II. The
rest of the test was unmarked, but the TA that graded this particular problem
left a comment about how I did get a correct answer, but did it in an arduous,
unnecessarily complicated way. It’s strange, but I feel like this introduced me
to the humanity of the TAs (especially with the smiley face). It also reminded
that although there may be more than one way to skin a cat, there are definitely
better methods and worse methods.

{{< figure src="/images/scorecard.png"
    title="Duplicate Bridge scorecard." class="small-image">}}

This is the score card for the first duplicate bridge event that I attended,
demonstrating what contracts were landed in each time, and the resulting score
from the playing-out of that contract. Whenever I return to my grandparents’
house in St. Louis, Missouri, we often play rubber bridge, and I wanted to
develop my skills further in college. As such, I decided to go to a duplicate
bridge club, which turned out to be a much more competitive setting, which is
both stressful and invigorating.

{{< figure src="/images/dausgaard.jpeg"
    title="A program from the Seattle Symphony." class="small-image">}}

This is the program for the second time I went to Benaroya Hall this quarter,
for the titular event where Thomas Dausgaard conducted Brahm's First Symphony. I
am somewhat frugal and of course living on a budget but through the use of
TeenTix, tickets for certain events cost only $5, which is completely worth it.
Classical music isn't my favorite genre of music (I prefer jazz), but I believe
it is important to be aware of it and appreciate it, and there is no better way
than going to concerts. I also find that the people who attend these are
interesting to talk to: one lady asked me about my own career goals with
bioengineering, and we had a conversation about the consequences of unethical
bioengineers, which I hadn't thought about before.

## 'focusing up'

physiking.

My portfolio from ENGL 282. A compilation and arrangement of all of the
materials I rated during this class. Lots of reflection present.

{{< pdfembed src="/pdfs/engl282_reflection.pdf" >}}

{{< rightfigure
    src="/images/phys142.jpeg"
    alt="Working on wave harmonics"
    title="Working hard on wave harmonics." >}}

Photo from **physics lab**.  
Found out how much I really enjoy physics!

{{< /rightfigure >}}

## 'into the sunlight'

the clouds ebbed; a bright orb appeared.

Slide from Bioen 299: determined that while I liked bioengineering, I more liked
the aspects pertaining to data and algorithms, not as much the biology part.
This led to me majoring in ECE and then CE.

After a summer of working food service, I found out that this is an extremely
difficult job and that I would much prefer something technical.

{{< figure src="/images/chipotle.jpeg"
    title="A photo of me at Chipotle on one of my last days of work." class="small-image">}}
