+++
date = '2025-05-19T03:30:25-07:00'
draft = false
title = 'Home page'
+++

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD026 -->

## Hi there!

Welcome to the portfolio website of Josh Wentzien. I'm a fourth-year Computer
Engineering major at the University of Washington graduating in Spring 2025.

On this website, you will be able to see my learning journey at the university
and how I have developed as a person.

{{< figure src="/images/st-moritz.jpeg" title="St. Moritz, January 2025" class="small-image">}}

## Learning Statement

While I have been at the University of Washington, my style of learning has
changed from that of reading from the textbook and focusing on getting every
last specific correct, to a style where I tend to learn better via projects and
by actually doing what I am learning about. This is partially illustrated via
two classes, one of which I took during the first quarter of my time at UW, and
one that I am taking right now, in my last quarter.

Back in the autumn of 2021, I was planning on majoring in Bioengineering, and so
I was taking all of the different engineering prerequisites, including MATH 125
(Calculus II). I wasn’t sure what to expect for my first ever technical college
class, and so I threw myself into studying with gusto, going over my notes from
lectures as well as the textbook what felt like every single day. I did well in
that class, but there’s only so long that one can maintain that manner of work;
it grew tedious after the initial shine of college began to tarnish. I only
realized that I wanted to be a Computer Engineering major sometime in the spring
quarter of my freshman year after spending time in BIOEN 299, which was a
1-credit seminar class where lots of different PhD students and professors
presented their latest work in bioengineering.

Although I found it fascinating, I came to the conclusion that I wouldn’t be
able to do anything in the bioengineering realm that I found truly interesting
unless I committed to completing a PhD. I didn’t want to have that sort of
commitment to a major that I didn’t feel that strongly about, and based on my
experience in the Bioengineering Without Borders RSO, the aspects of
bioengineering that really appealed to me were the data analysis portions, where
you use computers and programs and logic to make some sort of conclusion that it
would be impossible for a human to make. And so, in that quarter I resolved that
I would do my best to become a Computer Engineering major, and eventually I
succeeded in that in the spring of my sophomore year (it took this long because
I still had to take CSE 143 in order to apply, and then there are only certain
times of the year in which you can apply to swap to this major).

Fast forward to today, when I’m completing my capstone in computer security (CSE
481S). There aren’t daily worksheets nor weekly assignments that are based on
whatever we have learnt the last week, but rather it is a more self-driven
class, where my partner and I need to decide what we want to build, go through a
security review with our class, and then build our product. It’s quite fun to
actually be working on a real product, and I feel that I am learning much more
than when I took the prerequisite for this class because we are doing solely
application-focused work. Essentially, I feel that I started out at UW doing
standard homework assignments, which although doable are somewhat dull, and have
progressed to finding that I learn better through projects and by building.

With respect to the pillars of the Honors program, I think that the main way
that I have follow the interdisciplinarity tenet is through taking a variety of
classes on subjects that I wouldn’t have thought about had I been left to my own
devices. Experiential learning is the tenet that I have engaged most strongly
with. The two internships that I completed over the summers after my second and
third year taught me much about what I value in a workplace and the difference
between what it means to work at a job and at school, and this in turn in
incredibly valuable information as I graduate and begin working. My experience
studying abroad in Zürich was also formative: I made lifelong friends that are
now spread across the globe, and my eyes are open to the world in a way that
they were not before.

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 2rem;">
  <a href="/freshman/" class="btn">Go to Freshman Year →</a>
</div>
