---
title: "Junior Year"
weight: 3
---

{{< figure src="/images/pipelined-cpu.jpeg"
    title="My block diagram for a pipelined CPU." class="small-image">}}

This diagram exemplifies the design process that I have adhered to since
CSE 469. Before this class, most of the projects I had been assigned were of a
small-enough scope that I was able to rush right into them and design the
solution as I went along. Here, however, Professor Anderson stressed that it
would be necessary to plan this all out in advance, or else the design would
grow too complex and become undebuggable. I followed his advice, and had a few
iterations of design before I arrived at the above diagram, which I was able to
implement in SystemVerilog in order to have a fully-functioning five-stage CPU.
As a result of this experience, I tend to be much more careful and thought-out
when I am making larger projects.

{{< figure src="/images/debugging-451.jpeg"
    title="A friend and I past midnight in CSE2." class="small-image">}}

A quintessential photo of my time at UW: after several long hours of debugging
our operating system project, I took this photo to document the moment. One
thing I perhaps forgot to include, however, was whether this was a moment of
triumph or of defeat. In a way, this photo becomes indicative of how regardless
of how events actually turn out, it is important to appreciate the moment and
just follow one's journey. Additionally, despite the arduousness of being inside
the computer science building for hours working on the same thing, with the
proper company and motivation, it is actually an enjoyable (or at least
satisfying) experience, especially when it ends in success.

{{< figure src="/images/arista.jpeg"
    title="A sketch that a co-worker drew of me on the last day we were there." class="small-image">}}

For the summer, I moved down to San Jose and worked at Arista Networks. The
sketch that was drawn has almost certainly been erased by now, but it is perhaps
representative of how we humans enter spaces and then leave them, without
physically leaving too much behind. Unlike this sketch, some of my code does
reside within their systems and even if it is removed, the fact that it once
existed will remain within their version control history. It raises questions
about how we can tangibly impact the world around us and leave an impact that
remains after we are gone, but I do not think there is a definitive answer. We
perhaps should just do our best every day, and what remains, remains.
