---
title: "Senior Year"
weight: 4
---

## experiential learning: studying abroad in switzerland

{{< figure src="/images/nach-zurich.jpeg"
    title="A new sunrise on my flight from Seattle to Amsterdam." class="small-image">}}

This photo represents the change that I would be going through while living and
studying in Switzerland. At this time, I was sleep-deprived but still energetic
because I was going to Europe for the first time, and for a period of six
months. While I did learn much in the realm of academics, the most long-lasting
effect is likely going to be a passion for travel and experiencing new people,
places, and food. Additionally, taking this journey has cemented for me the
belief that when you try new things and reach for the stars, it is good for you
and things will typically work out well.

{{< figure src="/images/eth-zurich.jpeg"
    title="The central building of ETH Zürich." class="small-image">}}

Studying at ETH Zürich has been an immensely valuable experience for me. For
education, I learned not only the course material, which itself is valuable
knowledge, but I also developed my ability to learn in a different way. As a
whole, success in studies at ETH is driven by one’s personal drive throughout
the entire semester due to the fact that there aren’t really many “check-ins”
throughout the semester; it really is just one final test at the end of the
term. And so, I believe I am better now at keeping a project or goal in view for
months at time while seeing no tangible results until the end. And while it has
been good for my education, I think it has been even better for my personal
goals: I now have friends in just about every corner of the world that I can
contact if I’m ever headed over there. By just living and experiencing, I have
seen so many things that have made me realize that there are so many things in
life that don’t have to be the way that they are. From door handles to street
lights to public transportation payment methods, there really are so many
different ways of approaching these problems. I think it’s a valuable habit to
not treat the status quo as the way things should be now and forever, and my
travels have strengthened this ability.

I think a lot of what I have learned about myself has come in small, sometimes
intangible ways. I feel that I see the world in a slightly different light than
when I began exchange because of the people that I met, the city I lived in, the
countries I visited, and the sites that I saw. I found that one of my favorite
parts of traveling is trying to get as far away from the tourist centers as
possible and figuring out what the locals do and how they live. For them, it’s
just their daily life and the normal way of going about things, but for me it’s
a new perspective on what it means to live life. It all somewhat comes down to
the importance of trying new things and regardless of the results, learning from
it. Even with respect to my exchange, there are many things I did that I think
were resounding successes (e.g. visiting a Swiss cheese festival) and others
that I could have done better at (e.g. coordinating more longer-distance
travels), but it all works out because you learn from it and improve for the
future. There is never just one solution to a problem, and because of this,
today’s world does not need to be tomorrow’s world. It doesn’t happen by
accident, but with sustained effort there is no reason why the world can’t
continually get better and better.

{{< figure src="/images/oeschinensee.jpeg"
    title="Hiking the Oeschinensee with fellow exchange students." class="small-image">}}

{{< figure src="/images/post-apc.jpeg"
    title="Right after the final exam for Algorithms, Probability, and Computing. The year prior, the passing grade was a 16%."
    class="small-image">}}

In the previous two photos are distillations of core Switzerland study abroad
experiences: hiking through the mountains, and taking difficult exams. They
represent how, like with all things, it is necessary to strike a balance that
leaves you moving forward with life and building your skills, while still
remaining happy in the moment and appreciating where you are. Although I cannot
say that ETH Zürich has a particularly healthy work/life balance especially
compared to the rest of Europe, there is still definitely a culture of working
to live rather than living to work.

{{< figure src="/images/school-of-athens.jpeg"
    title="\"Just another\" masterpiece at the Vatican."
    class="small-image">}}

As I was touring Rome a week before I returned to Seattle, I decided to go
through the Vatican Museums because at the end is the Sistine Chapel, which I
figured that I really ought to see. To my surprise and delight, however, there
are numerous masterpieces, one after another after another, and it took me five
hours to get through the museum. Near the end was Raphael's “The School of
Athens”, which I hadn’t realized was there. This artwork and how I came to find
is a good symbol for my entire time in Europe: how much I learned through study
and the frequent serendipity in my day-to-day life.
